---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: Rapidly protoptye
datePublished: '2016-05-31T22:22:07.247Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-31T22:21:14.299Z'
title: Services
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-31-services.md
authors: []
publisher: null
starred: false
url: services/index.html
_type: Article

---
# Services

Rapidly protoptye

Build something that illustrates the core benefits of the product idea. Does it solve the problem we thought we wanted solved? Or, now that we're using a rough hack of it, are there different problems that are more relevant? 

Of course, thinking about the problem can be useful and save lots of time, but doing can reveal a whole lot of insight than thinking could never anticipate. Prototyping is all about getting to real in order to validate our thinking and/or identify important usable insights with minimal fuss and cost. By the time we've met, argued and speculated about whether an idea is a good one, we should be able to create a good-enough prototype to answer the question with direct experience. This direct experience more often than not reframes the problem we thought we were solving, and make the idea even better - or convinces us to throw it out without being overly precious about it.

What are prototypes then?

The prototypes we tend to use over and over again are:

Sales copy. If you can't describe in well enough to sell it, then you've probably not thought about it hard enough. Less is more. The sales copy should fit onto a single A4 page, and be read in 2 minutes or less. The goal is to see how many of the target users say "tell me more" or "Yes, I'll have that". Target: 1 hour.

Landing pages. Will real people actually want what you are suggesting? With some PPC ads and a simple landing page using your sales copy we should be able to tell if demand is weak, mediocre or hot. No deception involved, just validation. If we do it right, we'll have some early adopters to test with. Target: 4 hours.

Sketches. Using Sharpies, or sometimes simple digital mockup tools, we sketch the main screens and interactions. This usually reveals the must have features versus the "they-can-come-later" features. This is surprisingly difficult as it requires that we resist the temptation to fidget with UI controls, aligning boxes and finding the right labels and text to describe things. Target: 6 hours.

Bare-bones working prototype. Now we hack. We reuse and repurpose all types of existing web tools to demonstrate the essence of the product. We love Evernote, Zapier, Wufoo, Zoho, Corona, Wordpress, Fiverr and elance among the many other tools we can use to quickly hack something together - our imagination takes care of the rest. Target 1 to 2 days depending on complexity.

Time. Use your bare-bones prototype for at least a week. Sure it's not even close to what you had in mind, but that's where the power of imagination comes in. The important thing is that the must-have features are functional in some capacity and in real life scenarios in order to provide some validated learning. Is your idea still as awesome as you thought? What assumptions must we revisit? Target: 1 week.

Whiteboards. While the product is our main focus, product is just one piece in a huge list of requirements for things to succeed. Business models, sales, people, distribution, finance and more. Typically, we don't get this far till we've gone through the other stages because we don't believe in wasting time by solving imaginary problems. 

Business model canvas is usually the order of the day.